ÐÏ à¡± á > þÿ : < þÿÿÿ 9 ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿì¥Á
b ð ¿ § jbjb{x{x '" § ÿÿ ÿÿ ÿÿ ˆ
. . . . . . . ~ Â Â Â Â Î ~ ³ ¶ æ
æ æ æ æ æ æ æ * , , , , , , , i R » Â
X . æ æ æ æ æ X * . . æ æ m * * * æ
. . æ . æ * * B $ f . . . . æ * * * . . * Ú
á _Ç Â * * ƒ 0 ³ * } * } * * . ~ ~ D
Â ~ ~ Â Brent Harms: So Mike where are we
in the gold cycle right now?
Michael Maloney: I believe at the most we
are probably about 20 percent the way there.
I think there is a whole lot of purchasing
power gains to be made coming up here. If
you take a look at my book, Guide to Investing
in Gold and Silver, one of the premises here
is that through out the centuries whenever
there is a problem with the currency, whether
it is deflation or inflation, people tend
to rush back to gold and silver when the currency
becomes unstable. Especially during inflations
when people see their purchasing power being
lost very quickly they rush back towards gold
and silver to protect their purchasing power.
We don’t have hard data before the establishment
of the Federal Reserve. Once the establishment
of the Federal Reserve we can see the actual
data here.
What happens is the lower line here is the
value of all the gold held at the treasury.
That’s the total value of gold measured
in the ounces multiplied by the dollar price
of gold. So that’s the entire value.
The upper line is the value of all the base
money that is basically the cash that’s
in circulation. Base money is the cash in
circulation plus the deposits the banks have
at the Federal Reserve. Now all of those deposits
are redeemable in cash. So it is basically
all paper dollars that exist. In 1934 gold
was allowed to float in the open market and
it rose until it hit 35 dollars an ounce and
in doing so it covered every paper note printed
from George Washington to Roosevelt.
Then if you go to the 1970s bull market. Gold
became free trading and the will of the public
and the free markets bid the price up to where
for an entire year we could have go back on
the gold standard. Every paper dollar was
covered. The value of all the gold at the
treasury exceeded the value all the paper
dollars in circulation.
But I am sure you would agree credit cards
are replacing cash in circulation. Wouldn’t
you say so?
Brent Harms: Absolutely.
Mike Maloney: Ya. What people don’t know.
When you sign a credit card, a lot of people
don’t know this, when you sign a credit
card receipt you are expanding the currency
supply of the planet. That currency did exist
until you signed that receipt and the bank
makes a book entry. Unpaid credit card balances
are called outstanding revolving credit. So
if you go to the Fed’s website and you get
these numbers and you add outstanding revolving
credit to the base money you will see that
for three months gold also covered base money
when it got to 600 dollars an ounce and it
over shot and went to 800 dollars an ounce.
The reason I argue that you have to include
outstanding revolving credit in base money
is because when you sign that credit card
receipt and you create that currency, you
pay it to a merchant the same as if you had
paid paper dollars. Those dollars stay in
circulation until someone saves them up and
pays down credit card debt. So it is really
base money. It is that circulating medium
that is going though all the checking accounts.
And it (gold) covered outstanding revolving
credit.
At the end of the book I show the same chart
again, but now it is taken out to 2008 and
there is that little 1980 blip where gold
went to 850 dollars and overshoot both base
money plus outstanding revolving credit. And
gold has been doing this for about 2400 years.
Whenever a government expands the currency
supply beyond a reasonable amount people rush
back to gold and silver to protect their purchasing
power. They bid the price of gold and silver
up, measured in that debased currency, until
the value of the gold and silver matches the
value of the debased currency. Well look at
how we are debasing the currency today. Base
money went up to $825 billion and outstanding
revolving credit is way up. It took, when
this book was printed in August 2008, about
6300 dollars an ounce for history to repeat
and for the value of all the gold at the treasury
to rise where it would cover base money plus
outstanding revolving credit. Then a month
later in September they bailed out Fannie
Mae and Freddy Mac and the total bailouts
in 2008 came to about 900 billion dollars.
So the base money, or the check the fed wrote,
increased base money from $825 to about $1.7
something trillion almost 1.8 trillion. Then
in March the promised another 1.2 trillion.
That will bring us up to about 3 trillion
of base money and this year, for the first
time, outstanding revolving credit exceeded
a trillion dollars. So it is about 3 trillion
would be the total. For history to repeat
and for gold to cover the same portion of
the currency supply it covered back in 1980
and back in 1934 gold has to go over $15,000
dollars an ounce, today. So no, the answer
is the cycle has just begun.
§ ü hÍ_ ? µ N
N
±
Ê
§ ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý ý õ $ a$ gdÍ_
§ þ %
0 :pÍ_ °Ð/ °à=!° "° # $ %° ¥ < @ñÿ
< N o r m a l CJ aJ mH sH tH D A@òÿ¡ D
D e f a u l t P a r a g r a p h F o n t R
i óÿ³ R T a b l e N o r m a l ö 4Ö
l 4Ö aö ( k ôÿÁ ( N o L i s t § " ÿÿÿÿ
ÿÿ z™ ÿÿ z™ m § ¹ ? µ N N ± Ê
© ˜ 0 € € € ½€ ˜ 0 € € € ½€
˜ 0 € € à ð«€ ˜ 0 € € € ½€
˜ 0 € € € ½€ ˜ 0 € € € ½€
˜ 0 € € € ½€ ˜ 0 € € à À¢€
˜ 0 € € € ½€ ˜ 0 € € à € § § § Ø
Ú V ] © Å w © ÿ@ € W W ðÉI W W Š
5 § € @ ÿÿ U n k n o w n ÿÿ ÿÿ
ÿÿ ÿÿ ÿÿ ÿÿ G T i m e s N e w R o
m a n 5 € S y m b o l 3 A r i a l 1 ˆ ðÐ
h UäÜ&˜äÜ& # š Ö ± ð ¥ À ´ ´ € 4
d 8 æ ð ðÿ ÿÿÿ ÿÿÿ ÿÿÿ ÿÿÿ
ÿÿÿ ÿÿÿ ÿÿÿ ~ k ÿÿ = B r e n t
H a r m s : S o M i k e w h e r e a r e w
e i n t h e g o l d c y c l e r i g h t n
o w N i c h o l a s W r i g h t þÿ
à…ŸòùOh «‘ +'³Ù0 0, ˜ à ì ø
, 8
X d
p | „ Œ ” œ ' @ Brent Harms: So Mike
where are we in the gold cycle right now Normal
Nicholas Wright 2 Microsoft Word 11.5.6 @ ’²ã
@ æù-%ˆÊ @ û-ˆÊ š Ö G Œ* þÿÿÿPICT*‚
€ b ÿ ÿþ H H € b
€ € ÿ ÿ š ÿ€Ä € b H H éÐ
íÍ, € b € b Ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ
¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ F ÷ ÿ
o{ý ÿ w½w½ý ÿ kZ ÿþw½þ ÿ w½ö
ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ý ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ý ÿ o{Ý
ÿ q ÷ ÿ1Vµg9^÷Vµg9c NskZNsR” ÿR”ZÖVµg9Ns^÷
ÿVµNs^÷kZ^÷VµkZ^÷VµZÖo{Vµg9R”^÷c
ZÖR” ÿc g9c R”kZo{c JR ÿF1Vµw½kZÝ
ÿ g ÷ ÿ w½w½ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½w½ ÿw½ý
ÿ w½ ÿw½w½û ÿ w½ô ÿ
w½ ÿw½w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿo{o{ù ÿ w½ü
ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿw½ó ÿ ÷ ÿGVµg9ZÖR”Vµ^÷Nsg9VµkZZÖVµR”
ÿkZ ÿF1kZVµkZ^÷Vµg9g9R”^÷NskZZÖNsVµZÖ
ÿVµkZJR ÿR”R”VµR”kZg9VµR”ZÖ^÷g9Vµ
ÿZÖ^÷kZc JRg9g9R”^÷VµR”g9g9R”^÷kZ^÷kZ
ÿJRNsVµó ÿ S ÷ ÿ w½ù ÿ w½ ÿw½w½þ
ÿ sœþ ÿ w½ñ ÿ w½ý ÿ w½÷ ÿ w½þ
ÿ w½sœü ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½ò ÿ
Ÿ ÷ ÿHJR^÷kZ^÷o{ZÖVµVµw½R”ZÖR”kZZÖg9ZÖkZZÖ^÷kZJRVµZÖNsc
ÿZÖZÖVµZÖkZc VµNsZÖg9ZÖR”^÷ ÿNsNsZÖ^÷c
ZÖNs^÷Vµc ÿJR ÿR”^÷kZ^÷kZkZg9ZÖ^÷g9VµVµJR
ÿkZZÖZÖVµVµg9ô ÿ e ô ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½o{w½
ÿw½ý ÿ w½ù ÿ
o{w½ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿkZ ÿw½û ÿ sœ ÿw½ø
ÿ w½ü ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ó
ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿHNsZÖ ÿR”ZÖZÖVµ^÷Vµ ÿR”^÷
ÿNs ÿNskZ^÷ZÖ^÷Vµc o{Vµc o{ZÖR”VµVµZÖ
ÿR”o{kZ^÷g9ZÖVµ^÷ZÖkZg9R”^÷ZÖkZ^÷Ns^÷ZÖ^÷ZÖF1kZ^÷o{ZÖg9R”JRg9R”R”^÷c
R” ÿZÖ^÷g9JR^÷ô ÿ ¡ ÿ E î ÿ w½û
ÿ w½ù ÿ w½w½ü ÿ w½ ÿw½÷ ÿ w½
ÿw½ü ÿ w½ ÿsœw½ú ÿ sœw½í ÿ ™ ÷ ÿEc
^÷VµR”kZVµZÖVµw½R”JR^÷kZ^÷kZg9R”^÷kZVµZÖVµ
ÿR”ZÖR”kZF1kZVµw½ZÖR”g9R”^÷c
^÷kZ^÷Vµc g9w½VµNs^÷JR^÷kZo{g9R”ZÖ^÷kZNsg9R”Vµ
ÿZÖ^÷VµkZNsg9R”Vµw½ñ ÿ ] ó ÿ w½þ
ÿ w½ü ÿ w½w½ ÿ ÿw½ý ÿ w½þ ÿ
w½ ÿ ÿw½þ ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ù ÿ w½÷
ÿ w½w½ ÿ ÿo{ü ÿ w½w½ñ ÿ › ÷ ÿFZÖ^÷ZÖZÖR”g9^÷VµZÖg9ZÖkZ^÷ZÖR”R”Vµc
Vµg9ZÖc ZÖR” ÿVµVµZÖZÖo{kZ^÷Nsw½R”^÷Vµg9R”^÷c
^÷kZkZJRc g9R”^÷c ZÖNsR”ZÖ^÷VµZÖg9F1kZ^÷
ÿVµZÖZÖ^÷ZÖVµkZkZg9ò ÿ Y ÷ ÿ w½û
ÿ sœw½ü ÿ w½û ÿ w½ü ÿ w½ü ÿ
w½÷ ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ø ÿ w½w½ ÿ ÿw½ý
ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½õ ÿ ¡ ÷ ÿIZÖ^÷^÷Vµc
o{VµkZNs^÷ZÖVµZÖVµNs^÷VµZÖ^÷ZÖZÖkZ^÷ZÖ^÷^÷g9R”VµkZZÖ^÷kZJRVµZÖNsc
ÿZÖZÖVµZÖkZR”^÷Nsc ÿR”ZÖg9kZ^÷ZÖ^÷^÷
ÿZÖVµkZg9g9R”R”kZ^÷ZÖR” ÿR”Vµc
Vµõ ÿ / ó ÿ w½þ ÿ w½w½ ÿ ÿw½
ÿ ÿw½÷ ÿ w½û ÿ w½Í ÿ e ÷ ÿ+g9F1R”kZZÖZÖc
ZÖkZZÖVµVµZÖ ÿR”kZ^÷kZg9ZÖZÖkZZÖR”c
g9JR^÷o{kZZÖ^÷kZJRVµZÖNsc ÿZÖZÖVµZÖkZ×
ÿ ¡ ÿ w ÷ ÿ o{w½ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿw½þ
ÿ w½ ÿw½w½þ ÿ w½ ÿsœþ ÿ w½ý
ÿ w½w½ ÿw½ü ÿ
sœ ÿw½ ÿo{ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½o{û ÿ o{ý
ÿ w½ü ÿ w½ ÿw½ñ ÿ ¡ ÷ ÿIc kZ^÷ZÖZÖVµ
ÿg9R”Ns^÷ ÿR”VµR”ZÖVµg9VµR”^÷kZR”^÷g9R”^÷^÷ZÖNsR”kZR”R”NsR”Vµg9ZÖkZg9R”^÷g9^÷ZÖ^÷kZNsZÖ^÷ZÖ^÷kZR”
ÿc o{Vµc ^÷JR^÷ ÿ^÷NsVµJRo{F1NskZ^÷JRõ
ÿ 7 ö ÿ
sœ ÿw½ ÿo{ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½o{ò ÿ w½ü
ÿ w½w½þ ÿ w½Ò ÿ a ÷ ÿ)ZÖkZg9R”^÷g9^÷ZÖ^÷kZNsZÖ^÷ZÖ^÷kZ^÷
ÿVµZÖc VµVµZÖ^÷^÷g9R”^÷Vµc R”VµkZZÖVµNs
ÿR”^÷kZ^÷Õ ÿ l ÷ ÿ o{w½w½ ÿ ÿw½ù
ÿ w½ ÿw½ý ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½ü ÿ w½þ
ÿ w½þ ÿ sœ ÿþw½þ ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿw½þ
ÿ w½ù ÿ kZ ÿw½ ÿw½ ÿw½ñ ÿ › ÷ ÿFc
kZR”Vµg9F1ZÖZÖ^÷VµZÖo{ZÖg9F1 ÿR”VµZÖkZ
ÿkZNs^÷R”^÷kZ^÷R”g9R”^÷kZVµkZ^÷^÷ZÖNs
ÿkZZÖR”^÷c ZÖR” ÿR”^÷R” ÿVµg9JR^÷g9kZ^÷VµZÖR”kZkZ
ÿR”JRZÖg9R”^÷ò ÿ o ô ÿ
w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿsœ ÿ ÿw½w½ù ÿ w½
ÿ ÿw½ø ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿw½w½ ÿ ÿw½
ÿw½ ÿw½w½û ÿ sœ ÿ ÿw½w½kZþ ÿ
w½ ÿw½ ÿw½ñ ÿ › ÷ ÿFg9ZÖNskZkZVµR”^÷ZÖkZc
ZÖkZZÖNskZ^÷VµZÖ^÷kZ^÷R”Vµg9R”JR
ÿ^÷Vµc ^÷ZÖNsR”kZ^÷ZÖ^÷^÷ZÖR”g9g9R”^÷ZÖZÖkZNskZZÖkZZÖ^÷ZÖkZc
ZÖkZZÖR” ÿZÖg9R”JR ÿNsR”^÷ò ÿ
ð ÿ w½³ ÿ ÷ ÿ ^÷Vµ^÷kZ^÷kZVµR”^÷´
ÿ ¡ ÿ _ ÷ ÿ kZw½û ÿ w½ü ÿ w½þ
ÿ w½þ ÿ sœ ÿþw½ ÿw½ø ÿ w½þ ÿ
w½ý ÿ w½w½ ÿw½ý ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿw½ú
ÿ w½ï ÿ › ÷ ÿFkZR”^÷^÷ZÖZÖ^÷kZkZNs^÷
ÿR”g9R”^÷kZVµR”^÷ ÿZÖkZVµkZZÖR”^÷R”VµZÖ^÷NsR”Vµ^÷g9g9R”Vµg9R”R”VµZÖo{c
NskZg9JR^÷ ÿc VµF1g9R”Vµg9ZÖo{Vµc
^÷c ^÷Nsg9R”Vµò ÿ ] ÷ ÿ o{ö ÿ w½ý
ÿ w½û ÿ w½ü ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿw½û
ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½ü ÿ w½ ÿo{
ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½o{ì ÿ • ÷ ÿ$VµR”ZÖ^÷NskZZÖJRg9
ÿR”g9R”^÷c VµZÖR”o{Vµc ^÷c ^÷Nsg9R”Vµ
ÿZÖR”ZÖg9R”^÷ZÖ^÷üZÖ JR^÷ ÿR”VµVµZÖ
ÿR”Ns^÷ ÿJR ÿJR^÷g9^÷ZÖ^÷kZNsZÖ^÷ZÖ^÷kZkZ^÷ò
ÿ i ÷ ÿ w½w½þ ÿ w½w½sœ ÿw½þ ÿ
w½ö ÿ w½þ ÿ w½w½ü ÿ w½ ÿkZü ÿ
w½ý ÿ w½w½ ÿw½w½ý ÿ w½ ÿw½w½
ÿ ÿw½û ÿ w½ó ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿH^÷R”Vµw½VµkZkZR”
ÿJRZÖZÖ^÷ZÖ^÷ZÖZÖR”g9ZÖVµkZ^÷kZ^÷ZÖ^÷F1NsR”R”
ÿNs ÿc VµF1 ÿR”ZÖ ÿZÖo{ZÖR”VµR”c
VµkZkZNskZR”VµZÖ^÷kZZÖZÖkZNskZZÖJRVµg9^÷kZR”g9kZVµô
ÿ e ÷ ÿ w½o{o{w½ ÿ ÿw½w½ý ÿ w½w½
ÿ ÿw½þ ÿ sœw½ý ÿ w½ø ÿ w½þ ÿ
w½ø ÿ
w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿo{sœw½ ÿw½w½ö ÿ w½ô
ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿHkZ^÷^÷Vµc ZÖkZZÖVµR”ZÖ
ÿNsR”VµZÖZÖ ÿg9ZÖkZR”Vµg9Ns ÿJR^÷ZÖ
ÿZÖJR ÿNsNskZVµ^÷g9VµZÖ ÿZÖkZZÖZÖ^÷^÷Vµ^÷kZo{g9Nsg9^÷c
ZÖZÖkZNskZZÖVµVµZÖ^÷Vµc ^÷VµVµZÖô
ÿ ? õ ÿ w½ô ÿ w½ï ÿ w½sœþ ÿ o{w½ý
ÿ o{w½ ÿ ÿw½ú ÿ o{ü ÿ w½ì ÿ ÷ ÿ9Ns
ÿZÖZÖNsc ÿZÖ ÿZÖc ZÖkZ^÷kZ^÷ZÖ^÷kZ^÷ZÖZÖVµZÖ^÷kZVµZÖg9^÷ZÖkZNsg9^÷ZÖkZR”NskZc
VµZÖkZc ^÷c kZVµZÖNsVµc g9F1 ÿNs ÿýZÖ
^÷R”kZg9í ÿ ¡ ÿ r ÷ ÿ kZw½þ ÿ
sœù ÿ
w½ ÿw½o{sœo{ ÿw½ ÿw½w½þ ÿ w½ ÿ
ÿo{ýw½û ÿ sœü ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ ÿw½þ
ÿ w½ ÿsœ ÿw½þ ÿ w½w½þ ÿ w½ô
ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿHkZR”^÷Vµo{kZg9ZÖ^÷c ZÖ
ÿg9ZÖJR^÷kZ^÷kZVµZÖR”^÷kZkZNsNskZVµ^÷g9c
R”kZZÖR”^÷c VµNsR” ÿkZ^÷^÷g9kZVµR”Vµc
VµVµZÖg9R”^÷VµkZkZZÖkZg9R”^÷ZÖ^÷R”kZZÖ
ÿVµZÖô ÿ S ÷ ÿ w½ ÿ ÿsœü ÿ w½
ÿ ÿw½ ÿw½ ÿw½ö ÿ w½þ ÿ sœï ÿþw½ü
ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ó ÿ ÷ ÿGJR^÷
ÿkZ^÷^÷NskZNsVµ^÷NsR” ÿR” ÿJR^÷ZÖkZo{c
^÷^÷ZÖg9ZÖVµNs^÷kZ^÷kZZÖkZVµVµ^÷Vµ^÷kZ^÷g9^÷VµkZVµZÖc
ZÖ^÷kZZÖR”VµkZ^÷c ZÖR”Vµc VµZÖVµ
ÿJR^÷ ÿc ZÖR”ó ÿ X ô ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½o{ø
ÿ w½ ÿw½w½÷ ÿ w½kZ ÿw½þ ÿ w½
ÿ ÿsœ ÿþw½ý ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ô ÿ w½
ÿw½w½ó ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿHZÖNsVµZÖVµkZZÖVµ
ÿR”kZg9ZÖVµZÖ^÷kZZÖZÖkZNskZVµR”ZÖc
ZÖkZ^÷kZ^÷ZÖkZ ÿR”^÷kZVµR”^÷ZÖkZVµkZkZJR^÷
ÿc ZÖR” ÿJRg9R”^÷g9kZ^÷VµZÖR”R”
ÿkZc ^÷^÷ZÖ^÷NsR”^÷ô ÿ ( õ ÿ w½
ÿ ÿþw½û ÿ w½ ÿw½w½ù ÿ w½Æ ÿ
I ÷ ÿ kZVµR”^÷ ÿNskZJR^÷ ÿZÖVµZÖR”ZÖZÖkZNskZZÖo{Vµc
^÷c ^÷Nsg9R”VµÉ ÿ ¡ ÿ O ÷ ÿ o{
ÿ ÿw½ô ÿ w½w½ù ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ü ÿ
w½ú ÿ w½û ÿ w½ý ÿ o{w½ ÿ ÿw½w½
ÿw½í ÿ ÷ ÿGVµZÖg9kZVµNskZZÖ^÷kZ^÷g9ZÖ^÷VµVµ^÷kZZÖVµc
kZ^÷^÷c kZ^÷R”g9c VµkZZÖF1kZ^÷kZ^÷R”Vµc
Nsc ÿc VµF1o{Vµc o{kZc R”Vµ^÷ZÖVµc
kZZÖ^÷kZZÖVµg9g9ZÖ^÷ ÿZÖJRó ÿ õ
ÿ o{® ÿ ÷ ÿ ZÖZÖkZ® ÿ + ÷ ÿ o{ý
ÿ w½w½ý ÿ w½w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½¾
ÿ 5 ÷ ÿ Vµg9^÷Vµg9c NskZNsR” ÿZÖNsZÖZÖR”g9^÷kZg9¿
ÿ n ÷ ÿþw½ ÿw½w½ ÿw½ý ÿ w½w½
ÿo{w½w½û ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿw½ ÿw½ý ÿ
o{w½w½ô ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿsœý
ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½ô ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿHVµg9Ns^÷Vµg9VµR”Vµ^÷g9
ÿg9Vµ ÿc kZR”VµNs^÷ ÿZÖZÖR” ÿZÖVµ
ÿg9VµVµZÖVµw½c kZR”^÷Vµg9ZÖ^÷
ÿR”c VµVµc kZ^÷ZÖZÖc VµkZZÖw½VµR”g9ZÖkZZÖ^÷ZÖZÖkZ^÷ZÖZÖVµg9ô
ÿ C ÷ ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ô ÿ w½þ
ÿ w½ð ÿ w½þ ÿ w½õ ÿ w½ ÿ ÿsœ
ÿw½ð ÿ ™ ÷ ÿEVµVµZÖVµw½JRo{ZÖR”w½R”^÷Vµg9ZÖ^÷ZÖo{JRVµ
ÿc kZ^÷ZÖZÖc VµR”kZ^÷c ^÷R”g9g9ZÖ^÷
ÿVµkZ^÷R”ZÖVµVµZÖo{VµR”R”^÷
ÿc ^÷kZ^÷VµR”ZÖ^÷ZÖZÖkZg9ZÖkZg9R”^÷ñ
ÿ ¡ ÿ U ö ÿ w½ý ÿ kZw½ø ÿ w½w½ù
ÿ w½ú ÿ w½ ÿw½ø ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿw½
ÿ ÿw½þ ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½í ÿ — ÷ ÿ3ZÖNsVµ^÷g9
ÿkZR”VµR”^÷kZkZJRc g9 ÿZÖR” ÿR”o{ZÖR”
ÿVµ^÷kZg9JR ÿZÖZÖVµ^÷ZÖg9R”VµZÖ^÷c
^÷R”g9VµVµZÖ ÿJR^÷R”þVµ ÿNsNsVµ^÷ZÖVµR”ZÖZÖVµ^÷Vµg9ZÖñ
ÿ [ ÷ ÿ w½w½þ ÿ w½þ ÿ w½þ ÿ w½
ÿw½w½ø ÿþw½û ÿ w½û ÿ w½ú ÿ
w½ ÿkZ ÿ ÿsœù ÿ w½ ÿo{ ÿw½w½ñ
ÿ › ÷ ÿFc NsZÖVµo{ZÖc kZ^÷R”g9c
VµR” ÿR”NsVµVµc ^÷ZÖVµR”c VµkZR”ZÖZÖ^÷g9ZÖNsVµZÖNsc
ÿkZR”ZÖkZkZNsc ÿc kZ^÷JR ÿR”ZÖo{kZg9ZÖ^÷c
ZÖ ÿg9ZÖJR^÷g9^÷ZÖ ÿZÖò ÿ K õ ÿ
w½ü ÿ w½ú ÿ w½û ÿ w½ü ÿ w½ü
ÿ w½w½ü ÿ w½û ÿ w½ú ÿ w½þ ÿ
w½ ÿw½ë ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿHVµZÖR”ZÖZÖ^÷VµVµZÖg9ZÖ^÷
ÿc ^÷g9JR^÷ZÖ^÷Vµ^÷NsJR^÷kZZÖVµVµZÖg9ZÖ^÷
ÿVµZÖZÖ^÷g9ZÖNsVµZÖo{Vµc kZ^÷kZR”kZo{JR
ÿc kZ^÷R”g9g9ZÖJR^÷R”VµZÖ^÷NskZZÖVµ^÷g9ô
ÿ U ñ ÿ
w½w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿsœ ÿ ÿw½ú ÿ w½þ
ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½û ÿ w½w½ö ÿ w½ù ÿ
w½o{o{ ÿw½ ÿw½î ÿ ™ ÷ ÿ;g9ZÖ^÷Vµw½o{R”R”^÷
ÿJRVµg9kZZÖkZJRkZ^÷^÷NsR”Vµg9R”ZÖc
ZÖR” ÿVµR”ZÖc ZÖkZ^÷kZJRR” ÿVµZÖ^÷NsR”Vµ^÷g9Vµw½R”^÷Vµo{g9Nsg9g9ZÖþVµ
ÿZÖZÖkZVµkZF1Vµò ÿ G ð ÿ w½û ÿ
w½ý ÿ w½ú ÿ o{o{w½ ÿ ÿw½w½ø ÿ
kZw½ú ÿ w½û ÿ w½ü ÿ w½í ÿ ™ ÷ ÿEZÖ^÷Vµc
^÷VµVµZÖo{g9ZÖkZR”ZÖR”ZÖg9VµVµZÖVµZÖ
ÿVµg9ZÖ ÿVµVµZÖ ÿZÖkZNskZZÖVµVµZÖ^÷Vµc
^÷kZR”^÷ ÿkZ^÷VµZÖVµkZVµkZc ^÷^÷g9F1g9g9ZÖ^÷
ÿR”Ns^÷g9ZÖñ ÿ ¡ ÿ I õ ÿ w½ ÿw½û
ÿ w½ú ÿ w½û ÿ w½þ ÿ w½÷ ÿ w½ú
ÿ w½÷ ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ò ÿ › ÷ ÿFNsc
kZ^÷ZÖ^÷ZÖ^÷Nsg9VµF1o{Vµc kZ^÷kZZÖkZo{Vµc
c kZ^÷R”g9Ns ÿR”VµZÖ^÷NsR”Vµ^÷g9o{ZÖR”^÷c
Vµ^÷ZÖ^÷VµNs^÷Vµg9ZÖ^÷ ÿR”c Vµg9R”Vµg9Vµ^÷ZÖZÖc
VµkZZÖò ÿ 7 ð ÿ w½÷ ÿ w½é ÿ w½ý
ÿ w½ù ÿ sœþ ÿ w½ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ï
ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿHkZ^÷c VµZÖNsVµZÖ ÿg9ZÖ^÷c
kZ^÷JR^÷g9R”JRc ^÷kZkZJRc g9w½g9ZÖ^÷ZÖVµg9
ÿZÖg9ZÖVµNskZ^÷kZJRVµVµg9g9R”^÷ZÖB
kZ^÷VµZÖo{kZg9ZÖ^÷R”VµZÖZÖVµo{ZÖZÖVµZÖ^÷kZô
ÿ S ÷ ÿ w½ ÿw½w½ ÿ ÿkZw½þ ÿ w½
ÿw½w½ö ÿ w½ú ÿ w½õ ÿ w½ú ÿ w½ü
ÿ w½û ÿ w½ý ÿ w½õ ÿ ¡ ÷ ÿIZÖZÖkZNskZZÖkZR”ZÖZÖ^÷ZÖZÖkZNskZZÖZÖNsg9o{Vµc
o{kZc R”Vµ^÷ZÖVµ^÷Vµ^÷kZZÖZÖNsR”ZÖVµ^÷ZÖVµkZ^÷NsR”^÷NsR”ZÖ
ÿVµVµZÖ ÿZÖJRZÖ ÿZÖF1w½Vµc kZ^÷ZÖZÖc
VµkZZÖõ ÿ R ÷ ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿkZú ÿ
w½w½ ÿw½ø ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ü ÿ w½ú
ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ø ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ ÿþw½í
ÿ “ ÷ ÿBZÖ^÷R”g9R”ZÖ ÿZÖo{ZÖkZ^÷NskZg9R”VµZÖ^÷NsR”Vµ^÷g9
ÿZÖo{ZÖg9R”JRc o{kZc R”Vµ^÷Vµc NskZ^÷R”^÷NskZJRVµg9o{ZÖc
ZÖNsc ÿJRZÖ^÷c R”VµkZkZJR^÷î ÿ G
ö ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½ø ÿ
w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½w½û ÿ w½ü
ÿ w½ú ÿ w½û ÿ w½à ÿ y ÷ ÿ5c R”^÷c
NsVµc Vµc c ZÖ^÷VµNsZÖR” ÿZÖ ÿZÖkZc
ZÖR”kZc ZÖkZ^÷kZ^÷ZÖ ÿ^÷NsNsVµZÖo{Vµc
kZ^÷kZZÖkZo{JRc ÿkZ^÷R”g9á ÿ ¡ ÿ
[ ÷ ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ ÿ ÿsœw½
ÿw½þ ÿ w½w½ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ú ÿ w½ú
ÿ w½õ ÿ w½û ÿýo{þ ÿ w½ ÿw½ñ
ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿ<ZÖc g9R”^÷^÷VµZÖ ÿZÖkZJR^÷R”
ÿZÖZÖVµkZZÖR”ZÖVµw½JR^÷ ÿZÖB
kZ^÷c R”VµZÖ ÿVµc NsVµNs ÿ^÷g9VµZÖVµw½ZÖo{ZÖg9VµVµJR
ÿZÖ^÷g9g9NsþVµ ÿVµVµZÖg9R”^÷kZ^÷R”õ
ÿ i ÷ ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿw½þo{ ÿw½w½þ
ÿ w½ü ÿ w½w½ù ÿ o{sœo{ ÿw½ ÿw½w½ý
ÿ w½ü ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½w½ö ÿ
w½ô ÿ ¡ ÷ ÿIJRVµg9 ÿkZZÖJR ÿkZ^÷VµVµ
ÿR”kZR” ÿVµNs^÷kZ^÷c ZÖkZZÖ ÿVµZÖVµg9g9ZÖ
ÿVµc Vµ ÿZÖZÖkZNskZZÖVµVµZÖ ÿZÖR”kZZÖR”ZÖZÖg9R”ZÖg9R”R”VµZÖ^÷
ÿNsR”Vµ^÷g9 ÿZÖR”ZÖõ ÿ a ò ÿ
w½ú ÿ w½ú ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿw½þ ÿ w½
ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½ý ÿ w½ý ÿ w½ ÿ ÿsœþ
ÿ w½þ ÿ o{w½o{o{û ÿ o{w½w½ï ÿ Ÿ
÷ ÿ7ZÖ^÷Nsg9VµZÖo{Vµc ÿkZR”ZÖkZo{Vµc
ÿc kZ^÷JR ÿZÖR”ZÖ ÿc ZÖR” ÿR”VµZÖR”^÷^÷Vµ
ÿZÖZÖNsc ÿJRo{ZÖkZZÖkZVµR”ZÖ^÷g9g9þVµ
ÿg9^÷VµkZZÖc kZR”JR^÷kZ^÷kZVµõ ÿ
G é ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½õ ÿ w½ ÿw½ý ÿ w½ù
ÿ w½w½ö ÿ w½þ ÿ w½w½ ÿ ÿw½ü
ÿ w½õ ÿ ¡ ÷ ÿIc ZÖkZ^÷NsNskZ^÷JR
ÿR”ZÖVµVµZÖZÖg9R”^÷c ^÷kZkZJRc
g9 ÿZÖ^÷ZÖR”g9R”^÷g9ZÖVµZÖVµ
ÿkZ^÷VµZÖVµVµR”R” ÿB kZZÖ^÷Vµg9ZÖ^÷ZÖZÖR”
ÿkZ^÷F1R”Vµc Vµ ÿg9ZÖc ZÖR”õ ÿ
¡ ÿ U õ ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½÷ ÿ w½û ÿ
w½ö ÿ kZw½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿw½ ÿw½û ÿ sœþ
ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ö ÿ w½õ ÿ ¡ ÷ ÿIVµVµZÖZÖo{kZ^÷kZg9ZÖZÖkZZÖR”c
g9JR^÷o{kZZÖ^÷kZJRVµZÖNsc ÿZÖZÖVµZÖkZ
ÿkZR”^÷g9R”o{ZÖg9R”^÷ZÖkZZÖ^÷
ÿR” ÿc ZÖR”VµVµZÖ ÿZÖo{kZ^÷kZ^÷ZÖw½NsR”VµZÖ^÷kZJRõ
ÿ s ô ÿ w½ ÿw½ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ö ÿ w½w½ý
ÿ w½ ÿ ÿsœ ÿw½þ ÿ w½w½ ÿ ÿw½
ÿ ÿw½û ÿ w½þ ÿ w½þ ÿ w½þ ÿ sœ
ÿw½ ÿw½ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½õ ÿ ¡ ÷ ÿINs
ÿg9F1g9ZÖ^÷R”VµZÖ^÷ZÖc ^÷kZkZJRc
g9ZÖ ÿVµ^÷kZJR^÷kZ ÿVµR”^÷ZÖkZ
ÿJR^÷c ZÖkZZÖVµVµZÖ ÿR”kZR”kZ
ÿNsNsR”R”^÷ZÖg9R”^÷kZVµkZ^÷^÷ZÖkZg9R”^÷ZÖ^÷R”VµZÖJRõ
ÿ B ï ÿ o{ýw½ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ø ÿ w½
ÿw½ü ÿ w½÷ ÿ w½þ ÿ o{ï ÿþo{ sœõ
ÿ ¡ ÷ ÿIc ^÷kZkZJRc g9 ÿc kZR”kZkZZÖF1
ÿVµg9R”ZÖVµw½VµZÖ ÿVµR” ÿZÖ^÷R”VµR”Vµc
g9R”^÷c ^÷kZkZJRc g9 ÿg9ZÖVµg9 ÿVµR”ZÖ^÷NskZZÖVµ^÷g9Vµw½JRg9
ÿ^÷ZÖg9ZÖVµVµg9c õ ÿ ] ÷ ÿ w½ ÿw½w½þ
ÿ w½û ÿ w½û ÿ w½ú ÿ w½ø ÿ w½þ
ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½þ ÿ w½ ÿ ÿw½ ÿ ÿw½ù
ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ñ ÿ £ ÷ ÿJR”o{kZR”NsVµVµZÖZÖ
ÿ^÷NsNsVµZÖo{Vµc kZR”ZÖkZkZNsc ÿc
kZ^÷R”g9R”VµR” ÿg9^÷ZÖ ÿkZg9g9ZÖF1w½VµNs^÷Vµ
ÿJRo{ZÖR”ZÖZÖVµVµR”ZÖZÖkZo{VµR”ZÖ
ÿNs ÿZÖZÖc ^÷ZÖg9ö ÿ _ ÷ ÿýo{ ÿ
ÿw½þ ÿ w½þo{ w½ ÿw½w½÷ ÿ sœ ÿ
ÿw½ó ÿ w½sœþ ÿ w½þ ÿ w½þ ÿ sœ
ÿþw½ý ÿ w½þ ÿ w½ô ÿ Ÿ ÷ ÿ g9þVµEw½VµR”ZÖ^÷g9Vµ^÷VµVµZÖZÖkZNskZZÖVµVµZÖ^÷Vµc
^÷ ÿR”kZ ÿNsZÖg9R”g9g9ZÖ ÿkZ^÷ZÖ^÷JRVµVµZÖkZZÖkZg9R”^÷kZVµR”^÷
ÿZÖkZVµkZkZJR^÷ ÿc ZÖR” ÿVµg9JR^÷õ
ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ
¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ ¡ ÿ
¡ ÿ Ÿ ÿ - þÿ
ÕÍÕœ. “— +,ù®0 ` h p x € ˆ ˜
¨ ò ' 8 > Brent Harms: So Mike where are
we in the gold cycle right now Title
þÿÿÿ þÿÿÿ ! " # $ % & ' ( ) * + , - . / 0
þÿÿÿ2 3 4 5 6 7 8 þÿÿÿýÿÿÿ; þÿÿÿþÿÿÿþÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿR
o o t E n t r y ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ À F €F
ë‡Ê = € 1 T a b l e ÿÿÿÿ ÿÿÿÿ
W o r d D o c u m e n t ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ '" S
u m m a r y I n f o r m a t i o n ( ÿÿÿÿ
`, D o c u m e n t S u m m a r y I n f o
r m a t i o n 8 ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ 1
C o m p O b j ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ X ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
ÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ þÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿÿ
þÿ ÿÿÿÿ À F Microsoft Word Document
þÿÿÿNB6W Word.Document.8